It seems like a dream, yet I know it happened.

A man, a maid, a kiss and then goodbye.

Romance was the theme and we were the players,

I never think of this without a sigh...

Lover, one lonely day, love came planning to stay.

Green Dolphin Street supplied the setting,

The setting for nights beyond forgetting.

And through these moments apart, mem'ries live in my heart.

When I recall the love I found on, I could kiss the ground

On Green Dolphin Street...

Listen to my tale of woe, it's terribly sad, but true:

All dressed up, no place to go, each ev'ning I'm awf'ly blue.

I must win some winsome miss, can't go on like this.

I could blossom out, I know, with somebody just like you.

So...

Oh, sweet and lovely lady, be good.

Oh, lady, be good to me!

I am so awf'ly misunderstood, so, lady, be good to me.

Oh, please have some pity--

I'm all alone in this big city.

I tell you...

I'm just a lonesome babe in the wood, so, lady, be good to me.

Auburn and brunette and blonde: I love 'em all, tall or small.

But somehow they don't grow fond;

They stagger but never fall.

Winter's gone, and now it's spring!

Love! Where is thy sting?

If somebody won't respond, I'm going to end it all.

So...

Oh, sweet and lovely lady, be good.

Oh lady, be good to me!

I am so awf'ly misunderstood, so, lady, be good to me.

This is tulip weather--

So let's put two and two together.

I tell you

I'm just a lonesome babe in the wood,

So, lady, be good to me.

Like the beat beat beat of the tom-tom when the jungle shadows fall,

Like the tick tick tock of the stately clock as it stands against the wall,

Like the drip drip drip of the raindrops when the sum'r show'r is through,

So a voice within me keeps repeating

You--You--You.

Night and day you are the one, only you beneath the moon and under the sun.

Whether near to me or far it's no matter, darling, where you are, I think of you,

Night and day.

Day and night, why is it so that this longing for you follows wherever I go?

In the roaring traffic'e boom, in the silence of my lonely room, I think of you,

Night and day.

Night and day under the hide of me

There's an, oh, such a hungry yearning burning inside of me,

And it's torment won't be through till you let me spend my life making love to you

Day and night, night and day...

The very thought of you makes my heart sing,

Like an April breeze on the wings of spring,

And you appear in all your splendor,

My one and only love.

The shadows fall and spread their mystic charms,

In the hush of night while you're in my arms,

I feel your lips so warm and tender,

My one and only love...

The touch of your hand is like magic, a magic that I've never known,

The blush on your cheek whenever we speak tells me that you are my own...

You fill my eager heart with such desire, every kiss you give sets my soul on fire.

I give myself in sweet surrender,

My one and only love...

Behold the way our fine-feathered friend his virtue doth parade.

Thou knowest not, my dim-witted friend, the picture thou hast made.

Thy vacant brow and thy tousled hair conceal thy good intent.

Thy noble, upright, truthful, sincere, and slightly dopey gent--you're

My funny valentine, sweet comic valentine, you make me smile with my heart.

Your looks are laughable, unphotographable, yet you're my favorite work of art.

Is your figure less than Greek?

Is your mouth a little weak?

When you open it to speak are you smart?

But don't change a hair for me, not if you care for me,

Stay, little Valentine stay!

Each day is Valentine's Day...

The scene is set for dreaming, love's knocking at the door,

But, oh, my heart, I'm reluctant to start, for we've been fooled before...

The night is like a lovely tune, beware my foolish heart.

How white the ever constant moon, take care my foolish heart.

There's a line between love and fascination,

That's hard to see on an evening such as this,

For they both give the very same sensation,

When you're lost in the magic of a kiss.

Her lips are much too close to mine, beware my foolish heart,

But should our eager lips combine, then let the fire start.

For this time it isn't fascination, or a dream that will fade and fall apart,

It's love, this time it's love my foolish heart...

Look at me, I'm as helpless as a kitten up a tree,
And I feel like I'm clinging to a cloud, I can't understand,
I get misty just holding your hand.

Walk my way, and a thousand violins begin to play,
Or it might be the sound of your hello, that music I hear,
I get misty the moment you're near.

You can say that you're leading me on, but it's just what I want you to do.
Don't you notice how hopelessly I'm lost, that's why I'm following you...

On my own, would I wander through this wonderland alone?
Never knowing my right foot from my left, my hat from my glove,
I'm too misty and too much in love...

Waking skies at sunrise, ev'ry sunset too,
Seems to be bringing me memories of you.
Here and there, ev'rywhere, scenes that we once knew.
And they all just recall memories of you.

How I wish I could forget those happy yesteryears,
That have left a rosary of tears...

Your face beams in my dreams spite of all I do.
Ev'rything seems to bring memories of you...

Lately, I find myself out gazing at stars, hearing guitars, like someone in love.
Lately the things I do astound me, mostly whenever you're around me.
Lately, I seem to walk as though I had wings,
Bump into things, like someone in love.

Each time I look at you, I'm limp as a glove,
And feeling like someone in love

Up a lazy river by the old mill stream,
That lazy hazy river where we both can dream.
Linger in the shade of an old oak tree,
Throw away your troubles, dream a dream of me.

Up a lazy river where the robin's song wakes up in the mornin' as we roll along.
Blue skies up above, everyone's in love,
Up a lazy river, how happy we will be,
Up a lazy river with me.

Laura is the face in the misty night, footsteps that you hear down the hall.
The laugh that floats on a summer night, that you can never quite recall.
And you see Laura on the train that is passing thru,
Those eyes how familiar they seem.
She gave your very first kiss to you
That was Laura but she's only a dream...

I like cake, no mistake, but Baby, if you insist,
I'll cut out the cake, just for your sake, Baby, knock me a kiss.

I like pie, I hope to die, just to get a load of this.
When you get high, doggone the pie, Baby, c'mon and knock me a kiss.

When you pressed your lips to mine, that was when I understood.
They taste like candy, brandy and wine, peaches, bananas and ev'rything good.

I love jam and no flim flam, scratch that off my list.
This ain't no jam, the jam can scram, Baby, c'mon and knock me a kiss!

When you pressed your sweet lips to mine, that was when I understood.
They taste like candy, brandy and wine, peacxhes, bananas and ev'rything good.
I like cars and big cigars, but Baby, they won't be missed,
If ev'ryday I hear you say, "Baby! C'mon and knock me a kiss!"

Just friends, lovers no more,
Just friends, but not like before.
To think of what we've been and not to kiss again,
Seems like pretending it isn't the ending...

Two friends drifting apart,
Two friends but one broken heart.
We loved, we laughed, we cried, suddenly love died,
The story ends, and we're just friends...

I've never been in love before; now all at once it's you, it's you forevermore.
I've never been in love before.
I thought my heart was safe.
I thought I knew the score.

But this is wine that's all too strange and strong, I'm full of foolosh song
And out my song must pour.
So please forgive this helpless haze I'm in;
I've really never been in love before...

Damn! Damn! Damn! Damn!
I've grown accustomed to her face.
She almost makes the day begin.
I've grown accustomed to the tune she whistles night and noon.
Her smiles, her frowns, her ups, her downs are second nature to me now;
Like breathing out and breathing in.
I was serenely independent and content before we met,
Surely I can always be that way again---and yet,
I've grown accustomed to her look; accustomed to her voice;
Accustomed to her face.

Marry Freddie.
What an infantile idea!
What a heartless, wicked, brainless thing to do!
But she'll regret, she'll regret it!
It's doomed before they even take the vow!

I can see her now, Mrs. Freddie Eynsford-Hill in a wretched little flat above a store.
I can see her now, not a penny in the till, and a bill collector beating at the door.
She'll try to teach the things I taught her, and end up selling flow'rs instead,
Begging for her bread and water, while her husband has his breakfast in bed!

In a year or so, when she's prematurely gray, and the blossom in her cheek has turned to chalk,
She'll come home, and lo, he'll have upped and run away with a social climbing heiress from New York!
Poor Eliza. How simply frightful!
How humiliating! How delightful!

How poignant it'll be on that inevitable night when she hammers on my door in tears and rags.
Miserable and lonely, repentant and contrite.
Will I take her in or hurl her to the wolves?
Give her kindness or the treatment she deserves?
Will I take her in or throw the baggage out?

But...I'm a most forgiving man; the sort who never could, ever would,
Take a position and staunchly never budge.
A most forgiving man.

But...I shall never take her back!
If she were even crawling on her knees.
Let her promise to atone; let her shiver, let her moan; I'll slam the door and let the hellcat freeze!
Marry Freddy! Ha!

But I'm so used to hear her say good morning ev'ry day,
Her joys, her woes, her highs, her lows are second nature to me now;
Like breathing out and breathing in.

I'm very grateful she's a woman and so easy to forget; rather like a habit one can always break---and yet, I've grown accustomed to the trace of something in the air;
Accustomed to her face.

Merry month of May, sunny skies of blue, clouds have rolled away
And the sun peeps thru, may express happiness, joy you may define
In a thousand ways, but in a case like mine needs a "special phrase"
To reveal how I feel...

I've got the world on a string, sittin' on a rainbow, got the string around my finger,

What a world, what a life, I'm in love!

I've got a song that I sing, I can make the rain go, any time I move my finger,

Lucky me, can't you see, I'm in love.

Life is a beautiful thing, as long as I hold the string,

I'd be a silly so and so, if I should ever let go.

I've got the world on a string, sittin' on a rainbow, got the string around my finger,

What a world, what a life, I'm in love!

The snow is snowing, the wind is blowing, but I can weather the storm.
What do I care how much it may storm?
I've got my love to keep me warm.

I can't remember a worse December---just watch those icicles form.
What do I care if icicles form?
I've got my love to keep me warm.

Off with my overcoat, off with my glove;
I need no overcoat---I'm burning with love.

Mt heart's on fire, the flame grows higher, so I will weather the storm.
What do I care how much it may storm?
I've got my love to keep me warm...

Never treats me sweet and gentle, the way she should,
I got it bad and that ain't good.
My poor heart is sentimental, not made of wood,
I got it bad and that ain't good.

But when the weekend's over and Monday rolls around,
I end up where I start out, just crying my heart out.

Lord above, make her love me the way she should,
I got it bad and that ain't good.
I got it bad and that ain't good...

How glad the many millions of Annabelles and Lillians would be
To capture me.
But you had such persistence you wore down my resistance; I fell---
And it was swell. (You've no idea how lucky you are, you little ducky, to get this boy to pet.)
I'm your (you're my) big and brave and handsome Romeo.
How I won you I will never, never know.
It's not that you're attractive---but oh, my heart grew active when you came into view...

I've got a crush on you, Sweetie Pie.
All the day and nighttime hear me sigh.
I never had the least notion that I could fall with so much emotion...

Could you coo, could you care for a cunning cottage we could share?
The world will pardon my mush
'Cause I have got a crush, my baby, on you...

I've got a crush on you, Sweetie Pie.
All the day and nighttime hear me sigh.
This isn't just a flirtation:
We're proving that there's prodestination.

I could coo, I could care for that cunning cottage we could share.
Your mush I never shall shush 'cause I've got a crush, my baby, on you...

I never feel a thing is real, when I'm away from you,
Out of your embrace, the world's a temporary parking place.
Mmm, mm, you smile, the bubble has a rainbow in it.

Say, it's only a paper moon, sailing over a cardboard sea,
But it wouldn't be make believe, if you believed in me.
Yes, it's only a canvas sky, hanging over a muslin tree,
But it wouldn't be make believe, if you believed in me.

Without your love, it's a honky-tonk parade, without your love,
It's a melody played in a penny arcade.

It's a Barnum and Bailey world, just as phony as it can be,
But it wouldn't be make believe if you believed in me.

I'm as restless as a willow in a windstorm,
I'm as jumpy as a puppet on a string!
I'd say that I had spring fever, but I know it isn't spring.

I am starry-eyed and vaguely discontented,
Like a nightingale without a song to sing.
Oh, why should I have spring fever when it isn't even spring?

I keep wishing I were somewhere else, walking down a strange new street,
Hearing words that I have never heard from a man I've yet to meet.

I'm as busy as a spider spinning daydreams,
I'm as giddy as a baby on a swing.
I haven't seen a crocus or a rosebud or a robin on the wing,
But I feel so gay--in a melancholy way--that it might as well be spring...
It might as well be spring...

Why do I do just as you say?
Why must I just give you your way?
Why do I sigh, why don't I try to forget?
It must have been that something lovers call fate
Kept me saying, "I have to wait."
I saw them all, just couldn't fall 'til we met...

It seems like dreams, like I've always said,
Could be, should be making me glad.
But why am I blue?
It's up to you to explain.

I'm thinking, maybe, Baby, I'll go away.
Some day, some way, you'll come and say,
"It's you that I need," maybe you'll be pleading in vain...

It had to be you, it had to be you,
I wandered around and finally found the somebody who,
Could make me be blue, could make me be true
And even be glad, just to be sad thinking of you...

Some others I've seen, might never be mean,
Might never be cross or try to be boss, but they wouldn't do.
For nobody else gave me a thrill, with all your faults I love you still,
It had to be you, wonderful you, it had to be you.

What good is a melody, what good is music,
If it ain't possessin' something sweet?
It ain't the melody, it ain't the music.
There's something else that makes the tune complete...

It don't mean a thing if it ain't got that swing.
Doowah doo wah, doowah doo wah, doowah doo wah, doowah doo wah!
It don't mean a thing, all you got to do is sing:
Doowah doo wah, doowah doowah, doowah doo wah, doowah doo wah!
It makes no difference if it's sweet or hot.
Just give that rhythm ev'rything you've got.

It don't mean a thing if it ain't got that swing.
Doowah doo wah, doowah doo wah, doowah doo wah, doowah doo wah!

I got a gal who is always late,
Any time we have a date,
But I love her, yes, I love her.

I'm gonna walk right up to her gate
And see if I can get it straight,
'Cause I want her.
I'm gonna ask her...

Is you is or is you ain't ma Baby?
The way you're acting lately makes me doubt.
You is still ma Baby, Baby;
Seems my flame in your heart's done gone out.

Now a woman is a creature that has always been strange,
Just when you're sure of one, you'll find she's gone and made a change...

Is you is or is you ain't ma Baby?
Maybe Baby's found somebody new or is ma Baby still ma Baby true...

Summer, you old Indian summer,
You're the tear that comes afterJune-time's laughter.
You see so many dreams that don't come true,
Dreams we fashioned when summertime was new.

You are here to watch over some heart that is broken
By a word that somebody left unspoken.
You're the ghost of a romance in June going astray,
Fading too soon,

That's why I say, "Farewell to you, Indian summer."

Who's the lovin' daddy with the beautiful eyes?
What a pair o' lips, I'd like to try 'em for size.
I'll just tell him, "Baby, won't you swing it with me."
Hope he tells me, "Maybe!" What a wing it will be.
So I said politely, "Darlin', may I intrude?"
He said, "Don't keep me waitin' when I'm in the mood."

First I held him lightly and we started to dance.
Then I held him tightly, what a dreamy romance,
And I said, "Hey, Baby, it's a quarter to three,
There's a mess of moonlight, won't you share it with me?"

"Well," he answered, "Baby, don'-cha know that it's rude
To keep my two lips waitin' when they're in the mood!"

In the mood, that's what he told me.
In the mood, and when he told me,
In the mood, my heart was skippin', it didn't take me long to say,
"I'm in the mood now!"

In the mood, for all his kissin'.
In the mood for his crazy lovin'.
In the mood was what I was missin',
It didn't take me long to say, "I'm in the mood now!"

In my solitude, you haunt me,
With reveries of days gone by.
In my solitude, you taunt me,
With memories that never die.

I sit in my chair, filled with despair, nobody could be so sad.
With gloom ev'rywhere, I sit and I stare, I know that I'll soon go mad...

In my solitude, I'm praying, dear lord above,
Send back my love...

In a mellow tone, feeling fancy free,
And I'm not alone, I've got company.
Everything's okay the livelong day,
With this mellow song I can't go wrong.

In a mellow tone, that's the way to live.
If you mope and groan, something's gotta give.
Just go your way and laugh and play,
There's a joy unknown, in a mellow tone...

In a sentimental mood, I can see the stars come through my room.
While your loving attitude is like a flame that lights the gloom.
On the wings of every kiss, drifts a melody so strange and sweet,
In this sentimental bliss, you make my paradise complete.

Rose petals seem to fall, it's all I could dream to call you mine.
My heart's a lighter thing since you made this night a thing divine...

In a sentimental mood, I'm within a world so heavenly,
For I never dreamed that you'd be loving sentimental me...

I'm always chasing rainbows, watching clouds drifting by.
My schemes are just like all my dreams, ending in the sky.
Some fellows look and find the sunshine, I always look and find the rain,
Some fellows make a winning some time, I never even make a gain, believe me...

I'm always chasing rainbows, waiting to find a little bluebird in vain.

This lovely day will lengthen into ev'ning,
We'll sigh goodbye to all we ever had.
Alone, where we have walked together,
I'll remember April and be glad.

I'll be content you loved me once in April.
Your lips were warm and love and spring were new.
But I'm not afraid of autumn and her sorrow,
For I'll remember April and you.

The fire will dwindle into glowing ashes,
For flame and love live such a little while.
I won't forget, but I won't be lonely,
I'll remember April and I'll smile...

My love must be a kind of blind love, I can't see anyone but you.
And dear, I wonder if you find love an optical illusion, too?

Are the stars out tonight, I don't know if it's cloudy or bright?
'Cause I only have eyes for you, dear.
The moon may be high, but I can't see a thing in the sky,
'Cause I only have eyes for you.

I don't know if we're in a garden, or on a crowded avenue,
You are here, so am I, maybe millions of people pass by,
But they all disappear from view, and I only have eyes for you...

My story is much too sad to be told,
But practically ev'rything leaves me totally cold.
The only exception I know is the case
When I'm out on a quiet spree fighting vainly the old ennui
And I suddenly turn and see your fabulous face...

I get no kick from champagne.
Mere alcohol doesn't thrill me at all so tell me why should it be true
That I get a kick out of you?

Some get a kick from cocaine.
I'm sure that if I took even one sniff
That would bore me terrific'ly too yet I get a kick out of you.

I get a kick every time I see you're standing there before me.
I get a kick though it's clear to see you obviously don't adore me...

I get no kick in a plane.
Flying too high with some gal in the sky is my idea of nothing to do,
Yet I get a kick out of you...

(original version)
Until the day you came my way I got no joy from being alive.
But now that you have given a kick to my life I know that I'm slated to thrive...

I get no kick from champagne.
Mere alcohol doesn't thrill me at all so tell me why should it be true
That I get a kick out of you?

Some get a kick from cocaine.
I'm sure that if I took even one sniff that would bore me terrific'ly too
Yet I get a kick out of you.

I get a kick ev'ry time I see you're standing there before me.
I get a kick when you look at me and whisper you adore me.

I get no kick in a plane.
I shouldn't care for those nights in the air that the fair Missus Lindbergh goes through,
Yet I get a kick out of you...

Once I was young--yesterday, perhaps--
Danced with Jim and Paul and kissed some other chaps.
Once I was young, but never was naive.
And now I know I was naive.

I didn't know what time it was then I met you.
Oh, what a lovely time it was. How sublime it was, too!

I didn't know what day it was.
You held my hand. Warm like the month of May it was, and I'll say it was grand.

Grand to be alive, to be young, to be mad, to be yours alone!
Grand to see your face, feel your touch, hear your voice say I'm all your own.

I didn't know what year it was. Life was no prize.
I wanted love and here it was shining out of your eyes.
I'm wise, and I know what time it is now.

Once I was old--
Twenty years or so--
Rather well preserved:
The wrinkles didn't show.
Once I was old, but not too old for fun.
I used to hunt for little girls with my imaginary gun.
But now I aim for only one!

I didn't know what time it was then I met you.
Oh, what a lovely time it was. How sublime it was, too!
I didn't know what day it was. You held my hand.
Warm like the month of May it was, and I'll say it was grand.

Grand to be alive, to be young, to be mad, to be yours alone!
Grand to see your face, feel your touch, hear your voice say I'm all your own.

I didn't know what year it was. Life was no prize.
I wanted love and here it was shining out of your eyes.
I'm wise, and I know what time it is now.

A-B-C-D-E-F-G--I never learned to spell, at least not well.
1-2-3-4-5-6-7--I never learned to count a great amount.
But my busy mind is burning to use what learning I've got
I won't waste any time, I'll strike while the iron is hot...

If they asked me, I could write a book
About the way you walk and whisper and look.
I could write a preface on how we met
So the world would never forget.

And the simple secret of the plot
Is just to tell them that I love you a lot;
Then the world discovers as my book ends
How to make two lovers of friends...

Used to hate to go to school.
I never cracked a book;
I played the hook.
Never answered any mail;
To write I used to think was wasting ink.
It was never my endeavor to be clever and smart.
Now I suddenly feel a longing to write in my heart...

If they asked me, I could write a book about the way you walk and whisper and look.
I could write a preface on how we met so the world would never forget.
And the simple secret of the plot is just to tell them that I love you a lot;
Then the world discovers as my book ends
How to make two lovers of friends...

Away from the city that hurts and knocks,
I'm standing alone by the desolate docks, in the still and the chill of the night.
I see the horizon, the great unknown, my heart has an ache,
It's as heavy as stone with the dawn coming on,
Make it last...

I cover the waterfront, I'm watching the sea.
Will the one I love be coming back to me?
I cover the waterfront in search of my love,
And I'm covered by a starless sky above.

Here am I, patiently waiting, hoping and longing, oh, how I yearn.
Where are you? Are you forgetting? Do you remember? Will you return?

I cover the waterfront, I'm watching the sea,
For the one I love must come back to me...

As a tot when I trotted in little velvet panties,
I was kissed by my sisters, my cousins, and my aunties.
Sad to tell, it was hell---an inferno worse than Dante's.
So. my dear, I swore, "Never, nevermore!"
On my list, I insisted that kissing must be crossed out.
Now I find I was blind, and---oh, lady---how I've lost out!

I could cry salty tears; where have I been all these years?
Little wow, tell me now:
How long has this been going on?
There were chills up my spine, and some thrills I can't define.
Listen, sweet, I repeat:
How long has this been going on?

Oh, I feel that I could melt, into heaven I'm hurled.
I know how Columbus felt finding another world...

Kiss me once, then once more.
What a dunce I was before!
What a break, for heaven's sake! How long has this been going on?

'Neath the stars, at bazaars, often I've had to caress men.
Five or ten dollars then, I'd collect from all those yes-men.
Don't be sad; I must add that they meant no more than chess men.
Darling, can't you see---'Twas for charity?
Though these lips have made slips, I was never really serious.
Who'd'a thought I'd be brought to a state that's so delerious?

I could cry salty tears, where have I been all these years?
Little wow, tell me now
How long has this been going on...

There were chills up my spine and some thrills I can't define.
Listen you---tell me do:
How long has this been going on?

What a kick---now I buzz!
Boy, you click as no one does!
Hear me, sweet, I repeat:
How long has this been going on?

Dear, when in your arms I creep---that divine rendezvous---
Don't wake me if I'm asleep, let me dream that it's true...

Kiss me twice, then once more---that makes thrice; let's make it four!
What a break---for heaven's sake!
How long has this been going on?

(reprise)

Dear, oh dear! Is that nice!
Listen love, I smell a mice!
What's the mess? Come, confess!
How long has this been going on?

Goodness' sake! My, what brass!
Just a big snake in the grass!
I must know, you so-and-so,
How long has this been going on?

Somewhere there's music, how faint the tune?
Somewhere there's heaven, how high the moon?
There is no moon above where love is far away too,
'Til it comes true, that you love me and I love you.

Somewhere there's music, how near, how far?
Somewhere there's heaven, it's where you are.
The darkest night would shine if you would come to me soon,
Until you will be still my heart, how high the moon?

Ev'ry honeybee fills with jealousy when they see you out with me.
I don't blame them, goodness knows, Honeysuckle Rose.
When you're passing by flowers droop and sigh, and I know the reason why.
You're much sweeter, goodness knows, Honeysuckle Rose.

Don't buy sugar, you just have to touch my cup,
You're my sugar, it's sweet when you stir it up.

When I'm takin' sips from your tasty lips, seems the honey fairly drips,
You're confection, goodness knows, Honeysuckle Rose.

When I think of Tom I think about a night when the earth smelled of summer
And the sky was streaked with white,
And the soft mist of England was sleeping on a hill---
I remember this, and I always will...
There are new lovers now on the same silent hill,
Looking on the same blue sea and I know Tom and I are part of them all,
And they're all a part of Tom and me...

Hello, young lovers whoever you are, I hope your troubles are few.
All my good wishes go with you tonight---I've been in love like you.
Be brave, young lovers, and follow your star,Be brave and faithful and true,
Cling very close to each other tonight---I've been in love like you.

I know how it feels to have wings on your heels,
And fly down the street in a trance.
You fly down the street on the chance that you'll meet,
And you meet, not really by chance.

Don't cry, young lovers, whatever you do, don't cry because I'm alone;
All of my memories are happy tonight, I've had a love of my own,
I had a love of my own, like yours---I've had a love of my own.

It happened---I felt it happen.
I was awake---I wasn't blind.
I didn't think---I felt it happen, now I believe in matter over mind
And now you see we musn't wait.
The nearest moment that we marry is too late!

"Have you met Miss Jones?" someone said as we shook hands.
She was just Miss Jones to me.
Then I said, "Miss JOnes, you're a girl who understands
I'm a man who must be free."

And all at once I lost my breath, and all at once was scared to death,
And all at once I own the earth and sky!

Now I've met Miss Jones and we'll keep on meeting till we die,
Miss Jones and I.

(unused refrain)
"Have you met Miss Jones?" someone said as they shook hands.
She was just Miss Jones, that's all.
Then he said, "Miss Jones, you're a girl who understands
I'm a man who doesn't fall."

And all at once he lost his breath, and all at once was scared to death,
And all at once he lost his head and will.

Now he loves Miss Jones and they'll love until their hearts stand still,
Miss Jones and Phil!

(unused refrain for girl)
"Have you met Miss Jones?" someone said as we shook hands.
I was just Miss Jones, that's all.
Then he said, "Miss Jones, you're a girl who understands
I'm a man who must not fall."

And all at once we lost our breath, and all at once were scared to death,
And all at once we spoke in tender tones.

Now that he owns me, I own half of everything he owns;
He owns Miss Jones...

The torch I carry is handsome. it's worth its heartache in ransom,
And when the twilight steals, I know how the lady in the harbor feels.

When I want rain I get sunny weather, I'm just as blue as the sky,
Since love is gone can't pull myself together,
Guess I'll hang my tears out to dry.

Friends ask me out, I tell them I'm busy,
Must get a new alibi.
I stay at home and ask myself who is he?
Guess I'll hang my tears out to dry...

Dry little teardrops, my little teardrops hanging on a string of dreams.
Fly little mem'ries, my little mem'ries, remind her of our crazy schemes...

Somebody said, "Just forget about her," so I gave that treatment a try.
Strangely enough I got along without her, then one day she passed me rightby.
Oh, well, I guess i'll hang my tears out to dry...

Them that's got shall get, them that's not shall lose,
So the Bible said, and it still is news;
Mama may have, papa may have, but God bless the child
That's got his own! That's got his own.

Yes, the strong get more, while the weak ones fade,
Empty pockets don't ever make the grade;
Mama may have, papa may have, but God bless the child
That's got his own! That's got his own.

Money, you've got lots o' friends, crowdin' around the door,
When you're gone and spendin' ends, they don't come no more.

Rich relations give, crust of bread and such, you can help yourself,
But don't take too much!

Mama may have, papa may have, but God bless the child that's got his own!
That's got his own.
He just worry 'bout nothin' cause he's got his own...

Georgia, Georgia, the whole day through,
Just an old sweet song keeps Georgia on my mind.
Georgia, Georgia, a song of you comes as sweet and clear
As moonlight through the pines.

Other arms reach out to me, other eyes smile tenderly,
Still in peaceful dreams I see the road leads back to you...

Georgia, Georgia, no peace I find,
Just an old sweet song keeps Georgia on my mind...

Georgia, Georgia, no peace I find,
Just an old sweet song keeps Georgia on my mind...

Now that we are close.
No more nights morose.
Now that we are one, the beguine has just begun.
Now that we're side by side, the future looks so gay,
Now that we're alibi-ed when we say:

From this moment on you for me dear, only two for tea, dear,
From this moment on.
From this happy day, no more blue songs, only whoop-dee-doo songs,
From this moment on.

For you've got the love I need so much,
Got the skin I love to touch,
Got the arms to hold me tight,
Got the sweet lips to kiss me good night.

From this moment on, you and I babe, we'll be ridin' high, babe,
Every care is gone from this moment on...

I love you for sentimental reasons,
I hope you do believe me,
I'll give you my heart.

I love you and you alone were meant for me,
Please give your loving heart to me,
And say we'll never part.

I think of you every morning, dream of you every night,
Darling, I'm never lonely whenever you're in sight...

I love you for sentimental reasons, I hope you do believe me,
I've given you my heart...

Romance is a game for fools, I used to say.
A game I thought I'd never play.
Romance is a game for fools, I said and grinned.
The you passed by and here I am throwing caution to the wind...

Fools rush in where angels fear to tread,
And so I come to you my love, my heart above my head.
Though I see the danger there,
If there's a chance for me then I don't care.

Fools rush in where wise men fear to go,
But wise men never fall in love so how are they to know.
When we met I felt my life begin,
So open up your arms and let this fool rush in...

Poets often use many words to say a simple thing.
It takes thought and time and rhyme to make a poem sing.
With music and words I've been playing; for you I have written a song.
To be sure that you know what I'm saying, I'll translate as I go along...

Fly me to the moon and let me play among the stars.
Let me see what spring is like on Jupiter and Mars.
In other words hold my hand.
In other words, darling, kiss me.

Fill my heart with song and let me sing forever more.
You are all I long for, all I worship and adore.
In other words please be true.
In other words I love you...

Dozens of girls would storm up; I had to lock my door.
Somehow I couldn't warm up to one before.
What was it that controlled me? What kept my love-life lean?
My intuition told me you'd come on the scene.
Lady, listen to the rhythm of my heartbeat, and you'll get just what I mean...

Embrace me, my sweet embraceable you.
Embrace me, my irreplaceable you.
Just one look at you--my heart grew tipsy in me;
You and you alone bring out the gypsy in me.

I love all the many charms about you;
Above allI want my arms about you.
Don't be a naughty baby, come to papa--come to papa--do!
My sweet embraceable you...

I went about reciting, "Here's one who'll never fall!"
But I'm afraid the writing is on the wall.
My nose I used to turn up when you'd besiege my heart;
Now I completely burn up when you're slow to start.
I'm afraid you'll have to take the consequences; you upset the apple cart...

Embrace me, my sweet embraceable you.
Embrace me, you irreplaceable you.
In your arms I find love so delectable, dear,
I'm afraid it isn't quite respectable, dear...

But hang it, come on, let's glorify love!
Ding dang it! You'll shout, "Encore!" if I love.
Don't be a naughty papa, come to baby--come to baby--do!
My sweet embraceable you...

Dear lady, my silk-and-laceable you;
Dear lady, be my embraceable you.
You're the only one I love, yes, verily so!
But you're much too shy, unnecessarily so!

I'll try not to be so formal, my dear.
Am I not a man who's normal, my dear?
There's just one way to cheer me;
Come to papa--come to papa--do!
My sweet embraceable you...

East of the sun and west of the moon, we'll build a dream house of love, dear.
Near to the sun in the day, near to the moon at night,
We'll live in a lovely way, dear, living on love and pale moonlight.

Just you and I, forever and a day,
Love will not die, we'll keep it that way,

Up among the stars we'll find a harmony of life to a lovely tune,
East of the sun and west of the moon, dear,
East of the sun and west of the moon...

Stars shining bright above you,
Night breezes seem to whisper, "I love you."
Birds singing in the sycamore tree;
Dream a little dream of me.

Say nighty-night and kiss me;
Just hold me tight and tell me you'll miss me.
While I'm alone and blue as can be;
Dream a little dream of me.

Stars fading but I linger on, dear, still craving your kiss.
I'm longing to linger till dawn, dear, just saying this...

Sweet dreams till sunbeams find you.
Sweet dreams that leave all worries behind you
But in your dreams whatever they be;
Dream a little dream of me.

Stars fading but I linger on, dear, still craving your kiss.
I'm longing to linger till dawn, dear, just saying this...

Sweet dreams till sunbeams find you.
Sweet dreams that leave all worries behind you
But in your dreams whatever they be;
Dream a little dream of me...

When I'm not playing solitaire I take a book down from the shelf,
And what with programs on the air, I keep pretty much to myself...

Missed the Saturday dance; heard they crowded the floor.
Couldn't bear it without you, don't get around much anymore.
Thought I'd visit the club; got as far as the door.
They'd have asked me about you, don't get around much anymore.

Darling, I guess my mind's more at ease
But nevertheless, why stir up memories?

Been invited on dates; might have gone but what for?
Awfully different without you,
Don't get around much anymore...

April skies are in your eyes but darling, don't be blue.

Don't cry, oh, honey, please don't be that way.
Clouds in the sky should never make you feel that way.
The rain will bring the violets of May;
Tears are in vain so honey please don't be that way.

As long as we see it through, you'll have me and I'll have you...

Sweetheart, tomorrow is another day.
Don't break my heart, oh, honey, please don't be that way.

Don't cry, oh, honey, please don't be that way.
Clouds in the sky should never make you feel that way.
The rain will bring the violets of May,
Tears are in vain so, honey, please don't be that way.

As long as we see it through, you'll have me and I'll have you...

Sweetheart, tomorrow is another day.
Don't break my heart, oh, honey, please don't be that way...

The days of winre and roses laugh and run away like a child at play,
Through the meadowland toward a closing door,
A door marked "Nevermore," that wasn't there before.

The lonely night discloses just a passing breeze filled with memories
Of the golden smile that introduced me to
The days of wine and roses and you.

Darn that dream I dream each night;
You say you love me and hold me tight,
But when I awake and you're out of sight, oh, darn that dream.

Darn your lips and darn your eyes; they lift me high above the moonlit sky,
Then I tumble out of paradise, oh, darn that dream.

Darn that one track mind of mine, it can't understand that you don't care.
Just to change the mood I'm in, I'd welcome a nice old nightmare...

Darn that dream and bless it too; without that dream I never have you;
But it haunts me and it won't come true,
Oh, darn that dream...

Dancing in the dark 'til the tune ends; we're dancing in the dark
And it soon ends; we're waltzing in the wonder of why we're here,
Time hurries by; we're here and gone...

Looking for the light of a new love to brighten up my life,
I have you love and we can face the music together,
Dancing in the dark.

What though love is old, what though song is old, through them we can be young.
Hear this heart of mine calling all the time, dear one, tell me that we're one...

Looking for the light of a new love to brighten up my life,
I have you love and we can face the music together,
Dancing in the dark...

Come fly with me, let's fly, let's fly away.

If you can use some exotic booze there's a bar in far Bombay.

Come fly with me, let's fly, let's fly away.

Come fly with me, let's float down to Peru;

In llama -land there's a one-man band and he'll toot his flute for you.

Come fly with me, let's take off in the blue.

Once I get you up there where the air is rarified, we'll just glide, starry-eyed;

Once I get you up there I'll be holding you so near, you may hear angels cheer 'cause we're together.

Weather-wise, it's such a lovely day;

Just say the word and we'll beat the birds down to Acapulco Bay.

It's perfect for a flying honeymoon they say,

Come fly with me, let's fly, let's fly away...

Heaven, I'm in heaven,
And my heart beats so that I can hardly speak,
And I seem to find the happiness I seek
When we're out together dancing cheek to cheek.

Heaven, I'm in heaven,
And the cares that hung around me through the week
Seem to vanish like a gambler's lucky streak
When we're out together dancing cheek to cheek.

O! I love to climb a mountain and to reach the highest peak,
But it doesn't thrill me half as much as dancing cheek to cheek.
Oh! I love to go out fishing in a river or a creek,
But I don't enjoy it half as much as dancing cheek to cheek.

Dance with me---I want my arms about you.
The charm about you will carry me through

To heaven---I'm in heaven, and my heart beats so that I can hardly speak,
And I seem to find the happiness I seek
When we're out together dancing cheek to cheek...

Blackbird, blackbird, singing the blues all day right outside of my door;

Blackbird, blackbird, why do you sit and say there's no sunshine in store?

All through the winter you hung around;

Now I begin to feel homeward bound.

Blackbird, blackbird, gotta be on my way where there's sunshine galore...

Pack up all my cares and woe, here I go, singing low,

Bye, bye blackbird.

Where somebody waits for me, sugar's sweet, so is she, bye, bye blackbird.

No one here can love and understand me.

Oh, what hard luck stories they all hand me.

Make my bed and light the light, I'll be home late tonight,

Blackbird, bye bye.

Bluebird, bluebird, calling me far away; I've been longing for you.

Bluebird, bluebird, what do I hear you say?

Skies are turning blue; I'm like a flower that's fading here

Where every hour is one long tear.

Bluebird, bluebird, this is my lucky day.

Now my dreams will come true...

Pack up all my cares and woe, here I go, singing low, bye bye blackbird.

Where somebody waits for me, sugar's sweet, so is she, bye, bye blackbird.

No one here can love and understand me.

Oh, what hard luck stories they all hand me.

Make my bed and light the light, I'll be home late tonight,

Blackbird, bye bye...

Blackbird, blackbird, singing the blues all day right outside of my door;

Blackbird, blackbird, gotta be on my way, where there's sunshine galore.

Pack up all my cares and woe, here I go singing low, bye bye blackbird,

Where somebody waits for me, sugar's sweet, so is she, bye bye blackbird.

No one here can love and understand me, oh what hard luck stories they all hand me;

Make my bed and light the light, I'll arrive late tonight, blackbird bye bye.

Old man sunshine---listen you!
Never tell me Dreams Come True!
Just try it---and I'll start a riot.
Beatrice Fairfax---don't you dare ever tell me she/he will care;
I'm certain it's the Final Curtain.
I never want to hear from any cheerful Pollyanna's who tell you Fate supplies a mate---
It's all bananas!

They're writing songs of love, but not for me;
A lucky star's above, but not for me.
With Love to Lead The Way, I've found more Clouds of Gray
Than any Russian play could guarantee.

I was a fool to fall and Get That Way;
Heigh ho! Alas! And also Lack-a-day!
Love ain't done right by Nell; However---what the hell!
I guess he's not for me.

He's knocking on a door, but not for me;
He'll plan a two by four, but not for me.
I've heard that Love's a Game, I'm puzzled just the same---
Was I the Moth or Flame...?
I'm all at sea.

It started off so swell, this "Let's Pretend";
It all began so well; but what an end!
The climax of a plot should be the marriage knot,
But there's no knot for me.

(alternate refrain 2)
It all began so well, but what an end!
This is the time a Feller Needs a Friend:
When ev'ry happy plot ends with the marriage knot---
And there's no knot for me...

They're writing songs of love, but not for me;
A lucky star's above, but not for me.
With Love to Lead the Way, I've found more Skies of Gray
Than any Russian play could guarantee.
I was a fool to fall and Get That Way;
Heigh ho! Alas! And also Lackaday!
Although I can't dismiss the mem'ry of her kiss---
I guess she's not for me...

Some folks were meant to live in clover but they are such a chosen few;
And clover being green is something I've never seen
'Cause I was born to be blue.

When there's a yellow moon above me they say there's moonbeams I should view;
But moonbeams being gold are something I can't behold
'Cause I was born to be blue.

When I met you the world was bright and sunny; when you left the curtain fell.
I'd like to laugh but nothing strikes me funny; now my world's a faded pastel.

Well, I guess I'm luckier than some folks;
I've known the thrill of loving you;
And that alone is more than I was created for
'Cause I was born to be blue...

I'm lost in the dark, where is the spark of my love?
I'm lost in the night holding the light of my love.
The heavens opened and closed as well I might have supposed
And I am left in disabandon so far removed from all that I had planned on...

My heart is sad and lonely, for you I sigh for you dear only,
Why haven't you seen it?
I'm all for you body and soul.

I spend my days in longing and wondering why it's me you're wronging?
I tell you I mean it;
I'm all for you body and soul.

I can't believe it, it's hard to conceive it that you'd turn away romance.
Are you pretending it looks like the ending unless I could have one more chance to prove dear...

My life a wreck you're making, you know I'm yours for just the taking.
I'd gladly surrender myself to you body and soul.

You're making me blue; all that you do seems so unfair.
You try not to hear; turn a deaf ear to my prayer.
It seems you don't want to see what you are doing to me.
My arms are waiting to caress you and to my heart they long to press you, sweetheart...

My days have grown so lonely for I have lost my one and only.
My pride has been humbled but I am his body and soul.
I was a mere sensation; my house of cards had no foundation;
Although it has tumbled I still am his body and soul.

What lies before me? The future is stormy, a winter that's gray and old;
Unless there's magic the end will be tragic and echo the tale that's been told so often...

My life revolves about him, what earthly good am I without him?
My castles have crumbled but I am his body and soul.

Life's dreary for me; days seem to be long as years.
I look for the sun but I see none through my tears.
Your heart must be made of stone to leave me here all alone
When you could make my life worth living by simply taking what I'm giving...

My heart is sad and lonely; for you I sigh, for you dear only.
Why haven't you seen it? I'm all for you body and soul.
I spend my days in longing and wondering why it's me you're wronging?
I tell you I mean it, I'm all for you body and soul.

I can't believe it, it's hard to cenceive it that you'd turn away romance.
Are you pretending it looks like the ending unless I could have one more chance to prove dear...

My life a wreck you're making; you know I'm yours for just the taking.
I'd gladly surrender myself to you body and soul...
